
Start of #cos-dev buffer: Sun Jan 08 01:38:46 2006
[22:45] * Now talking in #cos-dev
[22:45] * Topic is 'See topic titled "Dev IRC channel" in programmers forum for key to 
join channel'
[22:45] * Set by Xavier on Sat Dec 24 00:52:57
[22:45] * ChanServ sets mode: +oa Xavier Xavier
[22:46] * All_for_One has joined #cos-dev
[22:48] <Xavier> hola
[22:48] <Xavier> heh so far there's no one here that doesn't already know what the 
  current state is ;)
[22:48] <Darkhorse> yeah, big surprise :)
[22:49] <Xavier> no biggie, I can dispense with a long-winded report on what's going on 
  and we can do more of a Q&A instead
[22:49] <Xavier> we got ten minutes yet, we'll see who else shows up
[22:49] <Darkhorse> shore fing
[22:50] <Xavier> DH you and Asmu got together yet?
[22:50] <Darkhorse> nah, online at the wrong times
[22:50] <Xavier> :(
[22:50] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> talking now ... got him on MSN
[22:50] <Xavier> and you are both only two timezones from each other :p
[22:50] <Darkhorse> you got me on MSN or some really clever double?
[22:51] <Darkhorse> it's all the working around US timezones, screws the body clock up
[22:51] <Sirius> hmm
[22:51] <Sirius> OISEvents.h....
[22:51] <All_for_One> hehehe
[22:51] <Darkhorse> I actually feel like going to bed at 2 am PST and so on
[22:51] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> i have just been really randoim recently coz of holidays
[22:52] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> back to work tomorrow though ... 9-5 then gamings time :)
[22:52] <Xavier> which is PST in GMT terms?
[22:52] <Sirius> I wonder whether SVN screwed up on me
[22:52] <All_for_One> -8
[22:52] <Darkhorse> -8
[22:52] <Xavier> so PST as I know it...DH, thought you were in NZ?
[22:53] <Darkhorse> yeah but I just live in the wrong timezone or something
[22:53] <Darkhorse> hit the hay and wake up too early
[22:53] <Xavier> lol
[22:54] <All_for_One> I know a guy like that
[22:54] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> it is 3:00PM here atm Xav
[22:54] <All_for_One> goes to bed at like 1900 and wakes up at like 0300
[22:54] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> so i am usually home on a weekday in about 2-3 hours
[22:55] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> so DH is a few hours ahead of me i think ...
[22:55] <Darkhorse> two
[22:55] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> only 2, thats not too bad
[22:55] <Darkhorse> the timezone in the middle is for fishermen
[22:56] <All_for_One> I think gohan is 2 ahead of me in CST.
[22:56] <Gohan> CST runs the world.
[22:56] <All_for_One> GMT rules the world
[22:56] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> i thought the freemasons did?
[22:56] <Darkhorse> yeah, the only thing the Brits still run around here. time.
[22:56] <Sirius> Cookie Sales Tax
[22:56] <All_for_One> nah
[22:56] <All_for_One> it's the secret reptilian overlords
[22:57] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> anyway ... as long as the meetings are on weekends i can 
  usually attend them :)
[22:57] <Sirius> Xavier
[22:57] <Sirius> where does OISEvents.h usually come from?
[22:57] <Sirius> the Tools projects won't compile because it's missing, apparently
[22:57] <Xavier> it is in nese/src/input/ois , and gets coped to nese/include in the 
  OIS.vcproj build
[22:58] <Xavier> easiest thing to do might be just load up the Engine.sln and build all 
  that
[22:59] <Darkhorse> two minutes, time to do a runner - brb.
[22:59] * All_for_One reads the greek and nods blankly
[23:01] <Xavier> hehe
[23:01] <Xavier> you would need to build OIS anyway, and CEGUI and Ogre, in order to 
  build the CDK
[23:02] * Thoth has joined #cos-dev
[23:02] <Thoth> hiyas
[23:02] <Xavier> oi!
[23:02] <All_for_One> Eek!
[23:02] <Sirius> k
[23:02] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> yo thoth :) feeling better?
[23:02] <All_for_One> \me runs
[23:02] * All_for_One runs
[23:03] <Thoth> lol, a bit thanks
[23:03] <Sirius> a bunch of the engine projects are failing to build for whatever 
  reason... just not sure which yet
[23:03] <All_for_One> oh, on a bit of a different point, how reputable is the MS 
  antispyware thingy?
[23:04] <Gohan> I heard good things about it
[23:04] <Gohan> considering it is just rebranded software
[23:04] <Thoth> i ran it in an office of 200 stations
[23:04] <All_for_One> heheh
[23:04] <Thoth> no/few problems
[23:04] <All_for_One> seems to work better here than ad-aware.
[23:04] <Xavier> Sirius: do you have the DirectX SDK and Cg Toolkit installed, and 
  directories set up for them in the IDE optins?
[23:04] <Xavier> *options
[23:05] <Xavier> what MS antispyware?
[23:05] <Gohan> formerly Giant Antispyware
[23:05] <Gohan> then MS bought it
[23:05] <Gohan> and called it MS AntiSpyware
[23:05] <Thoth> speaking of rebranding, konfabulator => Yahoo widgets
[23:05] <All_for_One> and you can download the "beta"
[23:05] <Gohan> which was recently extended to June of this year
[23:05] <All_for_One> if you have a legit copy of windowz
[23:06] <All_for_One> and crap => MWDA.
[23:06] <Xavier> lol
[23:06] <Darkhorse> windowz?
[23:06] <Darkhorse> the "z" usually has spiritual significance that indicates a chaotic 
  alignment
[23:06] * SG_01 Yawns
[23:06] <SG_01> Anything going on?
[23:07] <Xavier> lol SG I didn'
[23:07] <Darkhorse> hell yeah
[23:07] <Xavier> didnt even think you were here :p
[23:07] <Sirius> Cg Toolkit being? I'm not sure exactly which came with VC++
[23:07] <Sirius> I know I have the Win32 framework installed, but beyond that I didn't 
  add anything custom
[23:07] <SG_01> We where bussy
[23:07] <Xavier> sirius: http://www.clashofsteel.net/index.php?option=com_content&task=vi
  ew&id=32&Itemid=49
[23:08] <All_for_One> no, it's that I've been trying to get SP2 on this damn rig for the 
  last 3 hours, and only now did auto update stop trying to download and install it at 
  the same time.
[23:09] <Xavier> sirius: if you are using the VC8 express, then the Platform SDK is not 
  optional either; you'll need that for sure, and there will be a couple of additional 
  tweaks you'll need to get it to build things properly
[23:09] <Sirius> Platform SDK... yeah, I have that
[23:09] <Sirius> looks like this will take some time
[23:10] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> btw ... jargon aside what stage are we at with the 
  programming for us CDT types?
[23:10] <Xavier> ya, it's a serious amount of downloading
[23:10] <Xavier> ok, let's start then
[23:10] <Darkhorse> to reiterate: shore fing
[23:11] <Xavier> current capabilities are full model control (mouse, keyboard, stick) 
  with a little bit of tweaking needed
[23:11] <Xavier> we still need Elisor to finish the in-place animation to get an idea of 
  what we need to do there to synch the animation with the model's motion
[23:12] <Darkhorse> so right now I'm guessing it skates
[23:12] <Xavier> loading logic is ready to accept player profile (whenever the GUI is 
  done for that), it loads a mission file selected in the GUI, and it's ready to accept 
  networking in the next milestone
[23:12] <SG_01> Hrmm, I really need some sleep anyhow
[23:12] <Xavier> DH: yes
[23:12] <SG_01> I'll read all of this stuff tomorrow when my head is clear
[23:12] <Xavier> SG: nothing new for you here anyway ;)
[23:12] <SG_01> have a good night all :)
[23:12] <Xavier> nite SG
[23:13] <Darkhorse> see you round
[23:13] <SG_01> Where have I heard that before? Oh yea, last meeting :P
[23:13] <Xavier> lol
[23:13] <Thoth> gn
[23:13] <SG_01> nn
[23:13] * SG_01 is now known as SG_Zzz
[23:13] <Xavier> did you have anything specific in mind Asmu?
[23:14] <Xavier> I've been working on  the GUI editor portion of the CDK (content 
  development kit) so that doing layouts isn't such a chore moving forward
[23:14] <Darkhorse> giving me a kick in the backside probably :)
[23:14] <Xavier> I diverted myself to that in the middle of putting together an input 
  mapping GUI sheet
[23:15] <Sirius> How far are you on that Xavier?
[23:15] <Xavier> in fact I'll probably be doing a fair bit of tools, trying to set it up 
  all to run from a single IDE...which may be moot soon for those using Max or XSI, 
  since much of waht I would want to do is supported directly in plugins for each of 
  those
[23:15] <Xavier> about the same as the other night
[23:16] <Xavier> I can move things around on an existing sheet, but I am a bit stuck on 
  intuitive ways to drag-drop GUI bits onto a sheet, and I don't have New or Save 
  functionality yet either
[23:16] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> nothing in particular Xav just a gneral update is good :)
[23:16] <Sirius> right
[23:16] <All_for_One> k, bbl, SP2 says it's ready
[23:17] <Xavier> hehe
[23:17] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> and if there is anything we can show to the rest of the 
  team to maybe garner some more interst would be good too
[23:17] <Sirius> I'm not sure when I'm going to be able to start working on something... 
  especially since I've realised I have some way until I know what I'm doing :)
[23:17] <Xavier> btw, modellers, if any of you are in the market for a new tool or an 
  upgrade, XSI Foundation is under US$500 and does pretty much everything we likely need 
  for this project
[23:18] <Gohan> or just look around for "five finger discounts" :p
[23:18] * All_for_One has quit IRC (Quit: )
[23:18] <Thoth> I have read some very good reviews of it
[23:18] <Xavier> Asmu: I am waiting for Elisor to give me the animated model before I do 
  another build of the demo app
[23:18] <Darkhorse> yeah, sadly I'm not familiar with it nor do I have the money for it 
  right now
[23:18] <Thoth> industry standard stuff
[23:18] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> rgr that Xav ... good that we have in game stuff mostly 
  working
[23:18] <Xavier> nice thing about XSI is authoring content for an Ogre based app, the 
  plugin is written by the Ogre founder ;) so maintenance is not an issue :)
[23:19] <Xavier> aye Asmu, it's just waiting for meaningful content really before we can 
  start working forward again
[23:19] <Xavier> we're stuck with the canyon terrain and a stock Ogre terrain and they 
  are getting boring ;)
[23:19] <Xavier> (that's why I was asking about maps last night)
[23:19] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> of course ... but each step forward i see pumps me up .. 
  last i saw was a pic of the hovercraft sitting in canyon :)
[23:20] <Xavier> lol
[23:20] <Xavier> WAY beyond that
[23:20] <Xavier> ;)
[23:20] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> good .. is it downlaodable and testable?
[23:20] <Xavier> the next step is figuring out where scripting fits into all this
[23:20] <Xavier> to an extent
[23:20] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> right
[23:20] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> for maps
[23:20] <Thoth> is this the 1.3 katan dl?
[23:20] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> and rules of gametypes i am guessing?
[23:20] <Taos> Xavier, when your finished up here I have a question for you
[23:20] <Xavier> the one that is up there was put there so that Eli could see the 
  animation, but the current state moves better, and with a stick if you want it, but 
  it's not built yet
[23:21] <Xavier> ya, that's cos-latest-demo.msi
[23:21] <Xavier> scripting definitely for game scoring and basic mission logic, how much 
  further beyond that is up for debate
[23:21] <Xavier> go ahead T
[23:22] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> rgr that ... i have that mission thread but i can put 
  together a more general idea of what things must be achieved with scripting for all 
  missions
[23:22] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> what parameters and functions would be needed
[23:22] <Xavier> (another part of scripting will be something that is for testing only, 
  and will be disabled in a release build, and that is to be able to automate testing 
  runs)
[23:23] <Taos> would you be game for doing an audio developers diary of sorts once we 
  get content sorted and artists doing the bulk of the post processing? short 10 minute 
  or so bit twice a month?
[23:23] <Xavier> audio diary?
[23:23] <Taos> kinda like a dev blog but recorded in wav
[23:23] <Gohan> a bootleg podcast!
[23:24] <Gohan> :P
[23:24] <Xavier> I've not the best voice for that, but I suppose we can try
[23:24] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> put a porn music intro and it will not matter!
[23:24] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> sounds like a good ida actually
[23:25] <Taos> voice dont matter a lick, it's the content that counts, and a short bit 
  on the progress and technology behind an indie game could draw some positive attention 
  to our project and I have the perfect medium for distribution well set and underway
[23:26] <Xavier> k
[23:26] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> what sort fo stuff would be in it?
[23:26] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> and who do you need input from?
[23:26] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> concpet stuff or more techy programming stuff? artistic? 
  all in one?
[23:26] <Taos> well, me and SG I should say given SG is one of the men behind the magic
[23:28] <Taos> to start would be what the project is about, then would be progress 
  updates and brief bits on how it all works together and how a community is coming 
  together to build the project
[23:28] <Taos> nothing so much on the game itself, more on the motivation and movement 
  through the project
[23:29] <Xavier> ya if you want to give me a bit of direction on the sort of thing 
  you're looking for each time, I'll do my best
[23:29] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> maybe the PR team could put forth some questions to be 
  answered too
[23:29] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> i liked what BF2 did before release
[23:29] <Taos> essentially our biggest marketing strength is the fact that we are doing 
  this as a community for our own goals rather than a profitable venture
[23:30] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> they had some small interviews with the project directors 
  ... flashed a few questions in front of them and let them ramble on about it for a 
  while
[23:30] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> maybe even ask the comunity for some questions to add?
[23:30] <Xavier> problem is that the community doesn't even know what to ask...most of 
  them still think we're doing MW5 here ;)
[23:30] <Taos> I won't trouble you any further with specifics untill we are ready to 
  really show somethging to the world
[23:30] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> then let that be our first answer to the community
[23:31] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> this aint MW5 .. its better >:)
[23:31] <Xavier> hehe
[23:31] <Xavier> Taos: probably looking at spring for that
[23:31] <Darkhorse> damn, thought you said "anit" for a sec there
[23:31] <Xavier> I think we might have something to be able to show by then
[23:31] <Darkhorse> sorry, Keith is making me paranoid
[23:31] <Taos> I want visual content to show on our own site, that drawing factor to 
  draw more talent to our project before I launch a dev diary feature
[23:32] <Xavier> right
[23:32] <Xavier> that's the same point I am shooting for
[23:32] <Xavier> gotta have something concrete to show to attract people
[23:32] <Taos> that should also give you a backlog of stuff to ramble on about
[23:32] <Xavier> can't pick up talent in art and programming with just concepts ;)
[23:33] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> D:
[23:33] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> ;)
[23:34] <Xavier> not what I meant :p
[23:34] <Taos> the moment we can release an impressive in engine tech demo is the moment 
  this project can truly take off
[23:35] <Xavier> you can look through dozens of posts in the Ogre Recruitment forum that 
  are all "hey, we have this idea and we need someone to help program it" and that's as 
  far as it gets...but as soon as you put up screenies that are worth a shit it's a LOT 
  easier to find people looking to work on an established project
[23:35] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> yes
[23:35] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> just saying to DH how it has a snowball effect
[23:36] <Taos> oh, Xav, did you get ahold of Loopy on the Z-Brush stuff or should I nail 
  him down again?
[23:37] <Xavier> nah, I am thinking that XSI might be the way to go anyway...it's highly 
  supported for Ogre and its Ultimapper got rave reviews and comes with XSI 5 
  Foundation, which is the same price as ZBrush
[23:37] <Taos> he already has Zbrush though :P
[23:38] <Xavier> right
[23:38] <Xavier> but I gathered he doesn't really have the time atm
[23:39] <Taos> he has more time than he will tell you about, he lacks the motivation to 
  use it if I don't pin him down
[23:39] <Xavier> I figure I'll have to have one or the other anyway in order to be able 
  properly to design a DCC pipeline to incorporate map extractions
[23:39] <Xavier> lol
[23:40] <Taos> he tinkers, tis a matter of focusing that tinkering time to something 
  productive
[23:40] <Xavier> once we have some good HP models we might be able to split up the work 
  of extracting a good map; usually the LP version of the model is completely orthogonal 
  to the HP in every way, including UV coords
[23:41] <Taos> well, let me know when you got a project to test him against and I'll get 
  him into it
[23:41] <Xavier> whoever does the map extraction, whether it's the original modeller or 
  someone else, can pull out the normals and tangents and displacements and diffuse, oh 
  my, and that can all be reapplied to the LP at a later date
[23:41] <Xavier> got DH and Asmu working towards that
[23:42] <Xavier> an infantry model might be a real good opportunity
[23:42] <Taos> he did say he likes organics :P
[23:42] <Xavier> depends on how organic it ends up being ;)
[23:42] <Taos> I'll see if I can get him to do his scout model up proper
[23:43] <Xavier> from what I can tell, and asmu correct if wrong, the infantry will be 
  more like fully-armored Star Wars Stormtroopers than actual ragdoll characters
[23:44] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> not quite as armoured as that ... all factions will have 
  significant armour ont he body though
[23:44] <Taos> his scout is fully armored, so hopefully he can handle his own model
[23:44] <Xavier> (returning to the toolset for a brief instanct, one problem I may run 
  into is that other tools are just too damn good at doing various things that there is 
  little reason not to use them and maybe build a plugin for them instead of rolling our 
  own, so our CDK may just end up being more of a toolbox that wraps up major content 
  that was created elsewhere...thinking maps and levels here mainly for this)
[23:44] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> for game balance and realism purposes we ant that so they 
  can survive a hit and we have the science to backup why :)
[23:44] <Xavier> k
[23:45] <Xavier> that's where you and the modelling team hook up anyway, we just load 
  it, material it and animate it :)
[23:46] <Xavier> on that note, we've got the CDT and modellers working together on a 
  consistent and depth-complete set of models for a single faction
[23:46] <Xavier> that's why I figured sometime in the spring would be a good opportunity 
  for a tech demo
[23:47] <Taos> Smu, has your team laid out a unit outline for Kepi yet?
[23:47] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> check the modelling forum
[23:47] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> we have a thread up now
[23:48] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> we are still in early stages though ... we have not got a 
  consistant theme yet
[23:48] <Taos> youve got a list of units that need to be modelled?
[23:48] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> me and DH are talking about how to acjhieve that now
[23:48] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> we do ... but for the moment we still need some concepts
[23:48] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> without a solid theme nailing down exact units i not worth 
  it
[23:48] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> all the modellers need to know what a kepi unit should look 
  like
[23:49] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> if not we get a bunch of random models
[23:49] <Taos> try to get a listing in place for each faction of what units you want 
  represented as far as roles are concerned, it will likely be a very loosely followed 
  listing but that is the best way to provide forcus to the modellers by giving them 
  general guidelines of what you want
[23:50] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> we do have a list of roles and how many units for each role 
  in each faction lemme find it should be in the thread
[23:50] <Taos> aye, consistency in theme is important, but you also need to tell the 
  modellers what roles need to be filled
[23:50] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> http://www.clashofsteel.net/forums/viewtopic.php?t=822
[23:50] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> last link in the thread i put it so they have the info
[23:51] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> however i have he beliefe this will change somewhat in 
  tsting
[23:51] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> and if we get 5 Assault MACROs for instance we can always 
  cull a fewe .. or reassign some to other roles with some modifications
[23:52] <Xavier> I think that's what he was saying...the focus should be directed so as 
  to avoid that ;)(
[23:52] <Sirius> Depending, of course, whether the weight class distinction works that 
  way or exists
[23:52] <Sirius> :)
[23:52] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> at the moment i am encouraging freedom and concepts ... 
  once we have enough of a theme going i will task people with mroe speciifc models i 
  think
[23:52] <Xavier> so if we need 5 models and we have 5 modellers, then each should not be 
  doing MACROs for example
[23:52] <Taos> post that listing if it's deemed sufficient to the modelling forum and 
  update it as models are deemed complete to reflect how many remain in each role
[23:53] <Xavier> Asmu: I was hoping that DH or DH and one other modeller could come up 
  with the rough drafts that other modellers could work from
[23:54] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> that is the stage we are at :)
[23:54] <Xavier> it would be easier than trying to "herd the cats" as it were with 
  design elements from 6 different people
[23:54] <Xavier> once the rough drafts are done and approved, then they can be posted 
  with "here, we need this one done" and HP design can commence
[23:55] <Taos> for Kepi we have concept sketches for most of the different unit types, 
  correct?
[23:55] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> i am not comfortable going full steam ahead until a theme 
  is set is all .. i do nto want to turn around to each modeller and ask him to 
  continually change his model each time we discover something new theme wise
[23:55] <Thoth> well, I can start work on something specific if you outline exactly what 
  you want, on a per unit way
[23:55] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> no we do not Taos, we have very little in the way of art at 
  all
[23:55] <Thoth> i dont want to waste time on something that will be "culled"
[23:55] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> yes
[23:56] <Xavier> Thoth: that's why we want a set of rough drafts first, so that the 
  modeller knows what is wanted -- if you mean that you want to work on the drafts, then 
  the thread in the modellers forum contains those specifics :)
[23:56] <Thoth> rgr
[23:56] <Taos> we have infantry and to an extent micros from the infantry designs 
  though, which leaves 3 different types of ground themes and a handfull of 
  aerospace/vtol themes
[23:56] <Xavier> Thoth: that's also why I want the rough drafts done and approved before 
  anyone starts working on a HP
[23:56] <Thoth> k
[23:57] <Xavier> we don't have to have ALL drafts done, as each one is done it should be 
  posted up and called for volunteers
[23:57] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> so far only 2 modelers have responded
[23:57] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> and they have had questions about the factions
[23:57] <Taos> Xavier, the artists will have to work thier own rough drafts and submit 
  for aproval, we can only provide a theme, not a basis to model upon
[23:57] <Xavier> I want the modellers to have a 3D representation of what needs done, 
  with just enough detail to propel the actual HP design
[23:58] <Xavier> taos: I just see that as somewhat of chaos; that's basically what we 
  have now -- if we have the drafts coming from a "central" source, they are consistent 
  in quality and approval, and better serve the modellers, IMO
[23:58] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> i just want to make it clear we are behind on art and 
  models really ... this is early stages yet so concrete stuff should not be rushed
[23:59] <Xavier> right
[23:59] <Taos> if you start providing them with rough drafts to work upon you are 
  eliminating thier creative freedom, make it clear that units must follow form and be 
  accepted before inclusion, but don't lay out each model for them
[23:59] <Xavier> but it's easier for a modeller to work off a 3D draft than it is words
[23:59] <Xavier> not really, a rough draft is just a tad more detail than what AFO has 
  done
[00:00] <Xavier> the artistic freedom is still entirely in the hands of the modeller
[00:00] <Xavier> but now they know what the CDT has in mind
[00:00] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> what we need is an understandign among our modllers on what 
  a Kepi vehicle should look like ... so any player when they see it will say "That is 
  Kepi"
[00:00] <Taos> what we truly need is sketch artists
[00:00] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> yes
[00:00] <Xavier> instead of guessing or trying to decipher the words into visuals
[00:00] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> i have emailed Tuchten
[00:01] <Xavier> Taos: I don't think we'll have that luxury :(
[00:01] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> and Lycan was our only other sketch artis i think
[00:01] <Taos> for Kepi infantry to start with we have had that luxury
[00:02] <Xavier> I agree Asmu, which is why in the interests of getting the modellers 
  started ASAP, that rough drafts should come from one or two modellers that work 
  closely with you and AFO so that iterations are short and the draft is done quickly 
[00:02] <Thoth> perhaps a selection of existing, non-related art would help illustrate 
  some of the design schemes
[00:02] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> i have posted a few pictures in the thread as examples
[00:02] <Taos> for MACROs we have AFO's work but I'd leave it as it is and let the 
  modellers use it as general guidelines rather than a starting point
[00:03] <Thoth> the forum is a cumbersome way to absorb all of this
[00:03] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> actually they ar eon the wiki page
[00:03] <Xavier> ya, I had not intended rough drafts as a starting point, just as a 
  reference -- like TRO models for mechs
[00:03] <Xavier> (except that TROs are way more detailed than what I mean)
[00:04] <Xavier> the point being, it gives the modeller some way to say "yeah, I see 
  what they mean" 
[00:04] <Taos> personally I'd like to see what the modellers can come up with on our 
  own, perhaps they may even change our minds on some of the faction design concepts
[00:04] <Xavier> if we can find talented sketch artists, that may work just as well
[00:04] <Xavier> lol like AC's bug? I love it, Asmu hates it :p
[00:05] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> a low poly model is as good as a sketch soemtimes ... we 
  just need a bunch of them to review
[00:05] <Xavier> (one of the main things I like about the bug is that pivot design, 
  instead of having an exposed block of steel)
[00:06] <Taos> I love it and hate it at the same time personally, but it's one of many 
  idea's, and as they say, a picture is worth a thousand words, well, what if we gave 
  the modellers a couple weeks to pitch thier own concept ideas at us
[00:06] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> that is an example of what we need .. we need not take the 
  whole thing ... but ceretain elements might click and can be used as a theme
[00:06] <Xavier> right Asmu, just dont' want the modellers to feel like they are jsut 
  spinning their wheels -- they would rather, I think, be shown "this is what we think 
  it looks like" instead of "tell us what you think it looks like"
[00:06] <Xavier> I could be wrong
[00:07] <Taos> I likely am wrong, but personally, when I draw (of which you'll never 
  see) I hate being told how my work should look
[00:08] <Xavier> ya, but that's why we have a concept team ;)
[00:08] <Xavier> that's their job
[00:08] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> well i have tried to put a middle ground ... i give them 
  the faction and what it is about .. some general guidlines
[00:08] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> then from that i hope they can make something that clicks
[00:08] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> certain elements should be the same so we have a theme
[00:08] <Xavier> right but how much have you gotten so far from that Asmu? I have a 
  feeling that the modellers dont' even know where to begin...that's where a workiung 
  draft comes in :)
[00:08] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> i havent even seen many modeller to be honest
[00:08] <Darkhorse> ah, I can figure it out
[00:09] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> i dont think the modellers have tried much except for AC 
  and AFO
[00:09] <Taos> yeah, have fun DH
[00:09] <Taos> :P
[00:09] <Darkhorse> hehe
[00:09] <Darkhorse> hey, I have to do something, it may as well be that
[00:10] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> its gotta be a two way street ... they gotta come to the 
  CDT and ask otherwise i will have to start drawing again .. and NOBODY wnats that again
[00:10] <Gohan> ms paint D:
[00:10] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> hey i sketch too!
[00:10] <Thoth> i would rather work from bad drawings that a volumous argument about 
  what something should look like
[00:10] <Sirius> Xavier - is the October 2004 SDK restriction still in place?
[00:10] <Thoth> than*
[00:10] <Taos> I could draw if I really had to but I'm a toonist so technical style 
  sketches really are way out of my area of practice
[00:11] <Xavier> Sirius: you should be able to use the current one; that was an old Ogre 
  issue that has been fixed for a while
[00:11] <Sirius> ok
[00:11] <Xavier> right thoth, I don't think you are alone in that
[00:11] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> ok ... you asked for it ... i am gonna have to sketch again
[00:11] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> i warned you
[00:11] <Xavier> lol
[00:12] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> i ahve no design talent and no artistic ability
[00:12] * Thoth waits for the non-euclidian horrors
[00:12] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> i am a story writer and a wargamer not an artist ;)
[00:12] <Taos> Thoth, could you model from a picture of a bobble head? :P
[00:12] <Thoth> lol
[00:12] <Thoth> sure
[00:12] <Xavier> I told you, if you and DH and maybe one other modeller can get together 
  and whip up some low-res drafts of what you have in mind, then those go much further 
  in launching a modeller's creative juices than do words
[00:12] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng> thats what we are planning :)
[00:13] <Xavier> they got to have something to look at
[00:13] <Xavier> k
[00:13] <Taos> I'll try again to dig up some sketch artist talent
[00:13] <Thoth> DH, tell me what i can do to help in this way... though I still would 
  like to see drawings :)
[00:13] <Xavier> just wanted to make sure that we still weren't waiting for the 
  modellers themselves to submit something first ;)
[00:14] <Darkhorse> first thing I had planned is just to do some concepts of what 
  defines Kepi
[00:14] <Darkhorse> whether they're tanks or whatever
[00:14] <Taos> they got some time while they wait for these guideline models, put out a 
  tell and get em to send in some ideas while they wait
[00:14] <Xavier> the CDT are the game designers in this, and as such, theirs is the 
  primary word in what something should look or feel like -- that's your role, so don't 
  feel bad about saying what things should look like :)
[00:14] <Darkhorse> yeah, my concepts would just be bounced off the CDT to verify that 
  I'm on the right track
[00:15] <Xavier> if everyone wants to do that, then that's fine too
[00:15] <Xavier> but
[00:15] <Darkhorse> if you want to add to the concepts as well Thoth, go ahead
[00:15] <Thoth> rgr
[00:15] <Xavier> if DH and Thoth want to do the drafts, that's keen too 
[00:16] <Darkhorse> so by drafts you mean the beginning of the specific models as well?
[00:16] * [HJ]-Asmudius_Heng is now known as [HJ]-Asmudius_Heng|Sketching
[00:16] <Xavier> trust me, most of the modellers would rather reference something 
  tangible than try to wing it ;)
[00:16] <Darkhorse> yeah, that's doable as well.
[00:16] <Xavier> no, these would be reference geometry, consider it throwaway, even if 
  the modeller elects to start from it
[00:16] <Darkhorse> 'k
[00:17] <Taos> that's it, were doomed, where's my sketch pad? :P
[00:17] <Xavier> talking under 1000 poly for the most part
[00:17] <Sirius> sounds like the sort of stuff even I could do... haha
[00:17] <Xavier> hehe
[00:17] <Sirius> except I don't have an imagination for that
[00:17] <Taos> bobble heads for all!! :P
[00:17] <Xavier> I'm betting AFO's stuff is in the low-to-mid hundreds
[00:17] * Thoth just downloaded Lightwave to Ogre converter
[00:19] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng|Sketching> yes ... stuff we do now is throwaway stuff, you 
  can use em later if you want but unitl the theme is nailed down there is no point 
  falling in love with it
[00:19] <Thoth> i can work off of something that AFO put together without a problem, 
  should he be comfortable with that
[00:19] <Xavier> with this in motion, the programming is somewhat on hold, or at least 
  not much to do, until Eli gets that animation done
[00:20] <Darkhorse> going to have to buy myself a new sketchbook too, filled my others up
[00:20] <Xavier> heh, oru toolbox is going to be enormous for this...I keep thinking of 
  different DCC tools that we need...
[00:21] <Xavier> the other thing too, don't forget, is to nail down a first terrain to 
  redner
[00:21] <Xavier> *create
[00:21] <Xavier> for the first mission
[00:21] <Xavier> we'll need a modeller on that too
[00:21] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng|Sketching> crap .. forgot to post the first mission ... will 
  do that too
[00:22] <Xavier> a relatively detailed description of the terrain and fixtures/buildings 
  would help too
[00:22] <Xavier> if we can get a terrain started, we can start on figuring out CPU and 
  GPU budgets
[00:24] <Darkhorse> done terrains in past myself
[00:24] <Darkhorse> a lot actually
[00:24] <Taos> ugh, DH, you aint the only one run out of pages in the sketch pad, I got 
  near a dozen pads here and appear to have 3 blank pages
[00:26] <Taos> anyhow, may I properly derail this train for a minute?
[00:26] <Xavier> sure
[00:26] <Taos> some good news if I may
[00:26] <Xavier> your'
[00:26] <Xavier> you're a daddy?
[00:27] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng|Sketching> your a mommy?
[00:27] <Xavier> O_O
[00:29] <Darkhorse> what the
[00:29] <Taos> it's sounding as though when we reach the point of beta testing and RC 
  stages we will have pretty well all the backing our project desires from a well 
  developed and constantly growing gaming site. The webmaster of which is a strong 
  supporter of community projects and sounds quite optimistic about establishing and 
  maintaining a prolonged working relationship with our project
[00:29] <Xavier> kewl
[00:29] <Xavier> does that mean server farm? ;)
[00:30] <Taos> that doesn't mean anything specific at present aside from advertising our 
  project but it's far too early to determine what the future holds
[00:30] <Xavier> k
[00:30] <Xavier> either way that's kewl
[00:30] <Xavier> cool even
[00:30] * Xavier slaps face every time he types "kewl"
[00:30] <Gohan> so, what is this website that I can conquer? -- I mean, visit.
[00:31] <Sirius> haha
[00:31] <Darkhorse> pwn
[00:31] <Darkhorse> in the face
[00:31] <Xavier> I still think that a late 2006 internal alpha is feasible
[00:31] <Taos> Gohan, had you not been present I would have already mentioned it, 
  however given your presence you will just have to wait and find out in due time
[00:32] <Gohan> D:
[00:32] <Gohan> come on, it gives me something to do other than twiddle my thumbs and 
  moonlight as Antonio Handsome
[00:32] <Taos> ah hell, the site is www.gameclubcentral.com
[00:32] <Xavier> and a first public beta in 2007 is realistic -- the main difference I 
  see between internal alphas and public betas is CONTENT -- internal alphas likely will 
  be small content-wise, and will test functionality and performance rather than 
  content; errors in content creation process will be fixed then as well, so that when 
  the full-scale effort begins for creating public content, those errors are eliminated
[00:34] <Thoth> looking forward to that point
[00:34] <Taos> SG is the primary web hand of the site so to speak, and over the 6 years 
  it's been operating it has reached an average of roughly 6 or 7 thousand hits a day
[00:34] <Xavier> not bad
[00:35] <Taos> it's not exactly a good sole exposure point, however that site is at the 
  point where the other major sites are gleaning content from it which means far more 
  coverage over the course as well as good support
[00:35] * Xavier starts planning the to-do lists for the remainder of 0.2 and the next 
  2-3 milestones before first alpha, to put in dotProject
[00:36] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng|Sketching> sound spromising T good work :)
[00:36] <Xavier> I'm all about exposure once we ahve our ass covered :)
[00:37] <[HJ]-Asmudius_Heng|Sketching> we need pants to cver our asses yes!
[00:37] * Gohan has quit IRC (Quit:  oh god my pants are on fire, afk for the night)
[00:37] <Taos> wasn't really any work, the webmaster of the site as well as SG and the 
  majority of the site's staff are long time friends of mine so they would back this 
  project reguardless, I just happened to get somewhat oficial word on it tonight
[00:38] <Xavier> :-D
[00:38] <Darkhorse> Gohan - beware of Made in China.
[00:38] <Xavier> taos: hehe, once it was clear we were serious about making progress on 
  it ;)
[00:39] <Xavier> this whole thing has been enlightening as hell for me...got to find out 
  all the stuff I didn't know that I didn't know about game development ;)
[00:40] <Taos> those of you who have the time and interest check out the site and 
  involve yourself in the community as you can, you'll likely not find a better gaming 
  community on the web no matter how long and hard you searched
[00:40] <Sirius> oooh, the phantom gaming site
[00:40] <Sirius> oh wait
[00:40] <Sirius> you mentioned it
[00:40] <Sirius> heh
[00:41] * Xavier slaps Darkhorse around a bit with a large trout
[00:41] * Xavier slaps Sirius around a bit with a large trout
[00:41] * Xavier takes back DH slap
[00:41] * [HJ]-Asmudius_Heng|Sketching eats the fish
[00:41] <Taos> not exactly a phantom according to google, just small and developing yet, 
  but getting to the point of notice
[00:41] <Xavier> mmm, good North American rainbox trout...
[00:41] <Xavier> *rainbow
[00:41] <Sirius> I missed the URL, that's all
[00:41] <Xavier> lol T, he didn't know you linked it :p
[00:42] <Taos> oh
[00:42] <Sirius> was thinking "check out the site, sure! But we have to find it first, 
  huh?"
[00:42] <Xavier> hehe
[00:42] * Taos slaps Sirius around a bit with a large trout
[00:42] <Taos> that's what ya get for not payin attention
[00:42] <Sirius> eh
[00:42] <Sirius> comms was getting a bit
[00:42] <Sirius> weird.
[00:43] <Taos> is badass in em by chance?
[00:43] <Sirius> yes.
[00:43] <Darkhorse> yeah
[00:43] <Darkhorse> it wasn't his fault, honest
[00:43] <Taos> then that is to be expected, tell him I say hello
[00:43] <Darkhorse> you can blame me for pretty much all of it
[00:43] <Xavier> ya know, with the existence of the amount of quality middleware we have 
  at our disposal (and this goes just as well for commercial games using commercial 
  engines) the game development process is only about 25% code....the rest is content, 
  and for modern games, about 40% of that is GPU programming (shaders)
[00:43] <Sirius> right
[00:43] <Sirius> problem with middleware of course
[00:44] <Sirius> is it confuses the hell out of me :)
[00:44] <Xavier> hehe
[00:44] <Taos> that's just cause they cheat too much
[00:44] <Xavier> I had tried early on to create an engine API layer to wrap the 
  middleware and make it more straightforward
[00:44] <Taos> ANSI C ftw!!
[00:45] <Xavier> I might have a go at that again now that I have a better understanding 
  of how it might all go together
[00:45] <Xavier> lol
[00:45] <Sirius> Yeah, that's been my field for far too long
[00:45] <Sirius> That and Java
[00:45] <Sirius> no Windows, no OpenGL, no nothing... heh
[00:45] <Xavier> ya know, Sirius, you might want to hold off trying to build the Engine 
  stuff; I need to make a CoS "SDK" build of the libs and headers and package that up 
  and make it available; the engine libraries just don't change enough for everyone to 
  need to build them
[00:46] <Sirius> ok
[00:46] <Xavier> I'll grab VC8 and build it on that
[00:46] <Sirius> apart from the fact that that thing is huge anyway
[00:46] <Xavier> ya
[00:46] <Sirius> something like 90,000 files
[00:46] <Taos> I don't mind C++ with liberal use of STL and I tend to find myself all 
  too often debugging Toxic's VCL but some of the frameworks just drive me batty
[00:46] <Xavier> it's great to have if we need to change something, but if that happens, 
  the change would just be rebuilt and the new DLLs and headers made available
[00:47] <Xavier> what frameworks?>
[00:47] <Sirius> STL... Standard Template Library?
[00:47] <Xavier> ya
[00:47] <Sirius> Heard of it
[00:47] <Sirius> not quite sure what it is, but!
[00:47] <Thoth> extentions library
[00:47] <Taos> yes, on STL, and most of the framworks Xavier. MFC, >NET, OWL, all drive 
  me batty
[00:48] <Sirius> what sort of stuff does it add?
[00:48] <Xavier> MFC isn't bad... .NET is the only way to fly for business programming 
  on Windows
[00:48] <Thoth> seems like there is a basic database type set push pop type thing
[00:48] <Taos> it's mostly stuff to simplify common tasks
[00:48] <Thoth> string tools
[00:48] <Xavier> sirius: basic algorithm classes such as stacks, queues, vectors, etc, 
  and also full stream handling including file IO
[00:49] <Sirius> Oh, right
[00:49] <Xavier> there is another non-official library called Boost that includes a 
  shitload more useful stuff
[00:49] <Xavier> it's meant to make programming common things cross-platform
[00:49] <Xavier> the more you use STL instead of platform-specific APIs in your code, 
  the easier it is to port to other platforms
[00:49] <Xavier> bewcause it's standard :)
[00:50] <Taos> reason I like working with the API's directly if I can't use CLX and STL 
  is because I find it easiest to maintaint portability that way
[00:50] <Taos> otherwise it's STL and if I can CLX all the way
[00:51] <Taos> CLX is the greatest
[00:51] <Taos> but then again I'm stubborn and opinionated so you are probably best to 
  ignore that comment as I really don't want any more debugging work
[00:51] <Xavier> hehe
[00:51] <Xavier> ok, so is there anything else we need to cover?
[00:52] <Sirius> 119 of 326 MB of the DX9 SDK...
[00:52] <Xavier> yup, it's a biggie
[00:52] <Taos> Sirius, don't tempt him, we'll be here all night
[00:52] <Sirius> :)
[00:54] <Taos> Xav
[00:54] <Thoth> ok, guys, i guess im headed out
[00:54] <Thoth> gn all
[00:54] <Xavier> rgr, thanks Thoth 
[00:54] <Xavier> nite!
[00:54] <Darkhorse> see you.
[00:54] * Thoth has left #cos-dev
[00:54] <Taos> did you ever find that article I mentioned about the vertex and pixel 
  shader 3 workflow?
[00:55] <Xavier> I don't recall
[00:55] <Taos> was in a max PC article, outlined the operating mechanics of the shader 
  engines
[00:55] <Taos> I'll have to see if I can dig it up as it would probably be good for 
  pretty much everyone
[00:56] <Taos> but I'll do that tomorrow when I can actually get my regular PC running 
  as it kinda died this evening
[00:56] <Xavier> k
[00:56] <Taos> chipset fan went on vacation
[00:57] <Xavier> :(\
[00:57] <Taos> yeah, and this is the replacement they sent me because the first one was 
  a known problem
[00:57] <Xavier> problem not fixed eh? ;)
[00:57] <Taos> it lasted bout 3 weeks longer than the last one
[00:58] <Taos> just gonna give up on Asus this time and install an aftermarket
[00:59] <Xavier> my Gigabyte treating me well
[01:00] <Taos> this MB rocks all but that fan which they have since replaced with a 
  heatpipe unit instead due to all the problems with the sleeve type bearing fans they 
  were using]
[01:00] <Taos> the fan I got to replace this one is a ball bearing type so it should 
  last longer
[01:01] <Taos> kinda suck though given I just installed my X1800 a couple days ago and 
  haven't had time to play with it yet
[01:01] <Xavier> X1800 is...ATI card?
[01:02] <Taos> damn straight, best upgrade I ever made was from nvidia to ati
[01:02] <Taos> was dumb to give nvidia a try in the first place
[01:02] <Taos> ati stability on this system is absolutely unparralleled
[01:03] <Taos> not so much as a hiccup no matter what I've tossed at it
[01:03] <Xavier> same here with P4 and 6800GT :p
[01:04] <Taos> my 6600 just did not get along with my A64 version NF4 chipset
[01:04] <Xavier> I'm not surprised that ATI works better in Canada :p
[01:04] <Taos> I was just being abused for being a traitor
[01:04] <Xavier> rofl
[01:05] <Taos> buying yank junk when the best was right here at home
[01:05] <Taos> :P
[01:05] <Xavier> omg *rolls eyes* :p
[01:05] <Xavier> altho
[01:06] <Xavier> I do recall some significant driver issues with nVidia and 64-bit
[01:06] <Xavier> I dont' recall specifics, or even if they got them fixed or not
[01:06] <Xavier> when I need more than 4GB of physical RAM I'll get a 64-bit system ;)
[01:07] <Taos> I've found that nvidia graphics cards just can't compete on an amd 
  system, they have had a nightmare of a time maintaining stability every time I've 
  tried em and although I swore not to try it again I heard better things and did the 
  dumb thing again
[01:08] <Xavier> I dont' think I've ever actually had an AMD system so I can't say 
  personally
[01:08] <Taos> I've only had a few intel systems and I've never been impressed
[01:11] <Xavier> 575KB/sec, I guess my ISP finally got their shit together
[01:23] <Xavier> taos:
[01:23] <Xavier> 15.  	Will the Visual Studio Express Editions install side-by-side with 
  other versions of Visual Studio?
[01:23] <Xavier> 	
[01:23] <Xavier> Yes, side-by-side compatibility with other versions of Visual Studio 
  has been tested.
[01:24] <Xavier> yet you said that folks you know had problems with VC# 2005 and 1.1/2.0 
  .NET frameworks?
[01:25] <Taos> visual studio, yes, >NET development, yes, >NET runtime, not exactly 
  compatible
[01:25] <Xavier> correct, but 1.1 and 2.0 install side by side and dont' interfere with 
  each other...or shouldn't anyway
[01:26] <Xavier> ah well, I don't do ASP.NET on this machine anymore anyway; that's all 
  on the laptop
[01:27] <Taos> it's not VS that is a problem, it's that some portions of the 1.1 
  framework will not run on 2.0 and some portions of the 2.0 framework will not run on 
  1.1 and when both frameworks are installed at the same time there is no mechanism 
  present for the application to specify which framework to run upon
[01:28] <Xavier> hmm, should be...assemblies are built with a specific framework version 
  coded in them I thought
[01:28] <Taos> oh, wait, is 2.0 official now?
[01:29] <Taos> from what I'm hearing it's a problem specifically with the 2.0 beta 
  runtime
[01:29] <Taos> and the problem should not exist beyond the beta cycle'
[01:30] <Xavier> well the VS Express editions have been gold for a couple of months and 
  they rely on 2.0
  is installed and all reports on GCC state that shoot which is a site supported 
  application also refuses to work when 2.0 is installed as they were both developed 
  against 1.1
[01:37] <Xavier> k I'm outtie, nite all!
[01:38] * Xavier saves a copy of the log this time ;)
End of #cos-dev buffer    Sun Jan 08 01:38:46 2006
