
Start of #cos-dev buffer: Sat Mar 12 15:10:11 2005
[12:56] * Now talking in #cos-dev
[12:56] * Topic is 'Concept Dev Meetings - Every Sunday 9 PM'
[12:56] * Set by [HJ]-Asmudius_Heng on Sun Nov 14 17:30:07
[12:56] * ChanServ sets mode: +oq Xavier Xavier
[12:59] * Cimex has joined #cos-dev
[13:00] * flynn has joined #cos-dev
[13:00] <flynn> hey everyone
[13:00] <Cimex> hey
[13:01] <Xavier> hola
[13:01] <flynn> hey X, how ya doing?
[13:01] <Xavier> peachy :)
[13:01] <flynn> excellent :)
[13:02] <Xavier> hmm ok well Cimex needs to leave here in 45 min so we 
  should start
[13:02] <flynn> ok is Jeff not coming?
[13:03] <Cimex> I won't need to leave right away anymore.
[13:03] <Xavier> dunno, I got an email from him 20 min ago on another topic
[13:03] <Xavier> rgr Cim
[13:04] <flynn> I'm gonna log the meeting anyway
[13:04] <Xavier> k
[13:05] <flynn> really we should start to have agendas and keep records of 
  PDT meetings
[13:05] <Xavier> true
[13:06] <flynn> lets say have an offical meeting once every 2 or 4 weeks, 
  there can be an agendas thread so leads can add to it for each meeting
[13:06] <Xavier> good idea
[13:07] * DarkPhoenix has joined #cos-dev
[13:07] <Xavier> bingo
[13:07] <flynn> here he is :)
[13:07] <DarkPhoenix> much better
[13:08] <flynn> welcome 
[13:08] <Xavier> every two weeks sounds good to me flynn
[13:08] <flynn> yeah
[13:08] <DarkPhoenix> Hi gang
[13:08] <Xavier> hola
[13:08] <Cimex> Hey DP
[13:08] <flynn> i am gonna jot down the major points here from this meeting
[13:08] <Xavier> rgr
[13:09] <Xavier> ok
[13:09] <Xavier> first thing: where we are
[13:10] <Xavier> in terms of the dev team, we have a framework that allows 
  us to load up a textured heightmap in the engine along with any number of 
  exported (to Ogre .mesh) models into a static scene in which the camera 
  can be moved around
[13:11] <Xavier> right now Slit is working on a basic mission editor that 
  will allow the compilation of a mission file that the engine can load
[13:11] <Xavier> I think he is about 60% done with it
[13:11] <Xavier> (it's rather similar in functionality and usage to the MW4 
  mission editor)
[13:12] <Xavier> no audio or networking has been worked into the engine yet
[13:12] <Xavier> but the libraries are all there and build just fine (in 
  other words, they are more or less waiting for content)
[13:13] <flynn> i suppose much of the other stuff comes with using orge?
[13:13] <Xavier> other stuff?
[13:13] <flynn> mmmm like Particals, IK.. all the parts you need to bring 
  together
[13:14] * Vanguard has joined #cos-dev
[13:14] <Xavier> 'lo Van
[13:14] <Vanguard> hello, Lycan asked me to stop by for him
[13:14] <Vanguard> is that cool?
[13:14] <Xavier> welcome :)
[13:14] <Xavier> yup
[13:14] <flynn> hi Van
[13:14] <Vanguard> ok, :)
[13:14] <Vanguard> hi Flynn, Xav
[13:15] <Xavier> animations are handled by Ogre, yes, but they are exported 
  to the .mesh along with all of the other information, so whatever 
  modelling tool is used can produce animations Ogre can use
[13:15] <flynn> ok
[13:15] <Xavier> particles are also supported by Ogre
[13:16] <Xavier> that's all I have for present status
[13:16] <flynn> it seems like we are making good progress with coding
[13:16] <Xavier> once the mission editor is done, it can be used by the 
  team to create demo or test missions
[13:17] <Xavier> aye, progress is good I think
[13:17] <flynn> damn =\
[13:17] <Xavier> right now I have tagged this state of the code as 0.1.x
[13:17] <flynn> and i thought anything like that would be a long way off
[13:17] <flynn> you guys have done some great work :)
[13:18] <Xavier> nah, it became apparent to me that the best way to 
  facilitate concurrent development among the teams was to enable each team 
  to be able to manipulate the engine with the products of their efforts as 
  soon as possible
[13:18] <Xavier> thanks :)
[13:18] <Vanguard> I think maybe we should do a project status announcement
[13:19] <Xavier> for example, while modellers are producing things and 
  seeing them as they would be seen in the game, the devs would be 
  developing things like animation support and model control, etc
[13:19] <Vanguard> as of now we realy haven't made any, but Xav's progress 
  might be a good thing to announce
[13:19] <Xavier> I wouldn't announce it publicly just yet
[13:19] <flynn> maybe once the mission editor is finished we could do a 
  small demo vid for public?
[13:19] <Vanguard> ok, sounds good
[13:19] <Xavier> have to have content flynn ;)
[13:19] <flynn> lol
[13:19] <Xavier> which is where the modellers and artists come in
[13:20] <Xavier> I'd like to create a terrain and some models ourselves, of 
  the things that Cim's team has created, before considering any sort of 
  public display
[13:20] <Xavier> (and that's more or less up to Taos and DP anyway)
[13:20] <Xavier> (whether it gets released or not)
[13:21] <flynn> for terrain what do u need
[13:21] <flynn> just a hightmap?
[13:21] <Xavier> that's the easiest
[13:21] <flynn> yeah
[13:21] <Xavier> you can also generate one in TerraGen that can be used in 
  Ogre
[13:21] <Xavier> Terragen does it in raw format but Ogre can handle those 
[13:21] <Xavier> it'll have to be textured, which is where the artists come 
  in
[13:22] <Xavier> but I haven't been able to raise Zephyr at all for any of 
  this
[13:22] <flynn> well i am looking over the concepts team, i like how things 
  are going but there is still a lot more work to be done there, and some 
  of the stuff in my mind is still very Battletech like
[13:23] <Xavier> Cim? how much of your stuff is complete and coherent?
[13:24] <Cimex> It's really alot of bits and pieces.
[13:24] <Xavier> nothing that can be modelled yet?
[13:24] <Cimex> Well, there are plenty of models out there.
[13:25] <Cimex> I suppose we could pick a couple to focus on to get done.
[13:25] <Cimex> Have something of a vote to get people to pick their 
  favorites.
[13:25] <Xavier> I guess first we need a near-term target
[13:26] <Xavier> let's make it an outdoor scene, terrain-based, based on a 
  mission concept that you guys create
[13:26] <Xavier> that will give your guys the objects to focus on, and will 
  give Flynn's guys some tangible things to work on
[13:26] <flynn> we will need building designs for all races, and generic
[13:27] <flynn> buidlings are something we could work on now
[13:27] <Xavier> let
[13:27] <flynn> if we can setup templates for each race, so that designs 
  follow set rules on design for the races
[13:28] <Xavier> let's shoot for a 0.5.0 version for this target
[13:29] <Cimex> We've had the strongest concept threads on the Sidaruuk and 
  the Solari.  We just need art generated.
[13:29] <Xavier> the next minor target is 0.2, which gives us some room for 
  milestones before we have a working demo (the demo ought to be 
  manipulable, but probably not "playable" in that no game logic would 
  exist yet in 0.5)
[13:29] <Xavier> by art do you mean 2-D or 3-D?
[13:29] <flynn> i think the big thing at the moment in terms of Art is 
  getting 2D designs finished
[13:30] <flynn> to work from
[13:30] <Cimex> I agree.
[13:30] <flynn> and getting a race design template in place
[13:30] <flynn> i feel still at the moment people are still just throwing 
  ideas in the pot
[13:31] <flynn> but mainly are not putting out finished and dusted off 
  designs rdy and approved for modelling
[13:32] <flynn> so lets focus on buildings
[13:32] <flynn> how do you feel about that Cimex?
[13:32] <Cimex> No problem.  Who do we have as 2-D artists?
[13:32] <Xavier> zephyr is it, it appears
[13:33] <flynn> and myself
[13:33] <flynn> lycan is not bad also
[13:34] <Xavier> asmu does sketches does he not?
[13:34] <DarkPhoenix> Elisor just joined as well, he says he can work in 
  that regard as well.
[13:34] <flynn> basicly we are talking drawn, scanned, and photoshoped 
  final images here
[13:34] <Xavier> rgr
[13:34] <flynn> did elisor post any 2D work?
[13:35] <DarkPhoenix> just based on my conversation with him
[13:36] <flynn> ok
[13:37] <Xavier> anything else?
[13:37] <flynn> well if the concept team works on some building rules per 
  race, and then we start to get the normal ideas coming in, we can start 
  to pick out what we want and then get final design sheets done
[13:38] <flynn> DP how are you feeling overall about the project so far?
[13:39] <Cimex> What are you looking for in these building rules?
[13:39] <Xavier> (apart from your demo not working :p)
[13:39] <DarkPhoenix> I'm very impressed with the members and the work they 
  are doing
[13:40] <DarkPhoenix> the primary ones I've been working with are the 
  modelers of course
[13:40] <DarkPhoenix> HC is proving a nice way to get their feet wet
[13:40] <DarkPhoenix> I can't wait to see their CoS material.  :)
[13:42] <flynn> its not so much of an issue with buildings Cinmex, but 
  basicly when you do animation there alot of people drawing the same 
  thing.. every one has their own style so you make design sheets. These 
  sheets basicly say how to draw that character or building.. so when ur 
  concepting you have some lose rules on major design features of each race 
  to keep them looking different from each other but following a race theam.
[13:42] <flynn> loose*
[13:43] <flynn> you'll have to excuse my poor spelling ;)
[13:43] <Xavier> we're all fluent in Typo :p
[13:43] <flynn> lol
[13:43] <Xavier> k if there is nothing else there I want to move on to some 
  items of process
[13:44] <Vanguard> i wrote the dictionnary on typo ;)
[13:44] <Xavier> lol
[13:44] <flynn> fine with me X
[13:44] <flynn> lol
[13:45] <Xavier> k, first of all, the modelling tools that are supported by 
  Ogre exporters: Maya, 3DSMax, Lightwave (via convertor), Milkshape, 
  Blender3D, Wings3D and XSI
[13:45] <Xavier> the Ogre exporters will export material descriptions along 
  with the models, so textured models will export just fine
[13:46] <Xavier> all of these exporters export to an intermediate XML text 
  file that gets compiled by a final-step XML convertor app that comes with 
  Ogre
[13:46] <Xavier> I will want this intermediate format commited to SVN when 
  changes are made to models
[13:47] <Xavier> we'll have to come up with a suitable directory structure
[13:47] <Xavier> both the native tool mesh/material data as well as the 
  exprted mesh XML file should be kept in SVN 
[13:48] <flynn> ok
[13:48] <Xavier> the regular build process will pick up all of this stuff 
  and compile it into resource files as part of the build
[13:48] <Xavier> (btw, these resource files for now are simple ZIP files)
[13:48] <flynn> what will they be moving to later?
[13:49] <Xavier> they may stay ZIP files
[13:49] <Xavier> not sure
[13:49] <flynn> ok
[13:49] <Xavier> I like the ZIP file angle because it removes the need to 
  write a custom compiler: WinZip works well :)
[13:49] <flynn> if it aint broke, don't fix it ;)
[13:50] <Xavier> nope ;)
[13:50] <Xavier> right now, we have a MS installer (.msi) distribution 
  package for the demo app
[13:50] <Xavier> that will continue indefinitely, since that will always be 
  the primary installation method for Windows (RPM on Linux)
[13:50] <flynn> just out of intrest, we are using .net?
[13:51] <Xavier> but once the app is installed, hopefully with the 0.2 
  release, we will include an autoupdate feature, which is part of rakNet
[13:51] <Xavier> possibly for the game logic Flynn
[13:51] <flynn> ok
[13:51] <Xavier> the engine is completely C++
[13:51] <flynn> cool :)
[13:52] <flynn> i live with 3 visual programmers.. they don't talk about 
  .net too highly that's all
[13:52] <Xavier> Van, Lycan said he had an area on the site (currently 
  protected) that contains the .msi download point; I have not looked at it 
  yet, do you know anything about it?
[13:53] <Xavier> lol flynn
[13:53] <Xavier> it's Java only better and easier to use
[13:53] <Xavier> C# that is
[13:53] <flynn> ahhh ok
[13:55] <Vanguard> no Xav, he didn't mention it to me
[13:55] <Xavier> nm Van, I found it...I will need the link at 
  http://www.clashofsteel.net/index.php?option=com_remository&Itemid=46&func
  =selectcat&cat=1 to point directly to the .msi in SVN (which is 
  accessible as a normal webpage)
[13:55] <Vanguard> ok :)
[13:55] <Xavier> the build process will check the latest build back into 
  SVN and always call it the same name
[13:56] <Xavier> as we go on and public releases are made we can copy them 
  to a publicly accessible download point
[13:56] <Xavier> but for now, since it's only internal, having SVN access 
  is sufficient for security ;)
[13:56] <Xavier> any questions?
[13:57] <Xavier> I should add that textures and graphics can come in any 
  form: Ogre uses OpenIL for image manip and it can deal with just about 
  anything
[13:57] <Xavier> obviously JPG, PNG and GIF are the most common
[13:57] <Xavier> TIFF for heightmaps is fine
[13:58] <Xavier> heightmaps (non-Terragen) need to be 8- or 16-bit 
  grayscale no matter what format they come in
[13:58] <Xavier> the one in the demo is a PNG
[13:58] <flynn> nope, I'm good. I need to look over the SVN stuff in more 
  detail so i may have a chat with you a bit more later
[13:59] <Xavier> rgr
[13:59] <Xavier> also
[13:59] <flynn> what about terrain from mesh exported from 3rd party 
  package?
[13:59] <Xavier> for any artists that don't have Photoshop, I strongly 
  recommend Gimp
[13:59] <Xavier> how do you mean?
[14:00] <flynn> can we export maps made in say MAX
[14:00] <flynn> or what ever modelling package
[14:00] <Xavier> if they export to heightmaps I can for sure say yes
[14:01] <Xavier> as for terrain as a mesh itself....I'd have to get back to 
  you on that
[14:01] <flynn> ok
[14:01] <Xavier> there are several scene managers in Ogre
[14:01] <flynn> i'd be intrested to know the answer
[14:01] <flynn> so if u find out, please let me know
[14:01] <Xavier> the only one i've used much so far is the octree manager, 
  which uses heightmaps
[14:02] <Xavier> they also have a BSP scene mgr which uses Quake levels 
  directly (for indoor scenes)
[14:02] <flynn> intresting
[14:03] <Xavier> there are others in development that are not part of the 
  actual Ogre release (3rd party plugins)
[14:03] <Xavier> there is a dotScene manager in the works for dealing with 
  .scene files
[14:03] <Xavier> that may be what you need, I'll find out tho
[14:04] <flynn> well if we are using hightmaps then we have to use the 
  level editor to place stuff, the reason i asked about being able to load 
  level meshes into the game was mainly for indoor, or allowing grater 
  control over a given level 
[14:05] <flynn> on a model level
[14:05] <Xavier> for indoor, so long as it can export Quake level files 
  (bsp) then I can say yes for sure
[14:05] <flynn> k
[14:06] <Xavier> Ogre does not do portalling yet, but that also is in the 
  works and is fairly well along as I understand
[14:07] <Xavier> that won't be necessary for a v1.0 release however
[14:07] <flynn> yeah
[14:07] <Xavier> v1.0 will be strictly terrain I think
[14:07] <flynn> i think that will be perfect
[14:07] <flynn> i dont see why we need more at that stage
[14:07] <Xavier> the goal I think is to get something stable, solid and 
  playable (and familiar) in the hands of users as soon as possible
[14:08] <Xavier> I've resigned myself to a v1.0 being similar in gameplay 
  concept to MW4
[14:08] <Xavier> other things obviously will not be
[14:08] <Xavier> netcode
[14:08] <Xavier> eye candy
[14:08] <Xavier> etc
[14:08] <flynn> so we are looking at a map u can move around in 
[14:09] <Xavier> but v1.0 will probably best be terrain-based outdoor scenes
[14:09] <Xavier> yup
[14:09] <flynn> what about GUI, and HUD
[14:10] <Xavier> the first major usable/testable release will probably be a 
  single-reticle-no-HUD type thing, FPV, moving around the terrain in a 
  model
[14:10] <Xavier> that is probably the 0.5 target
[14:10] <flynn> ok
[14:10] <Xavier> right now we are at 0.14
[14:10] <Xavier> once I get the autoupdate incorporated, and Slit gets the 
  mission editor done, we'll peg that as 0.2
[14:11] <Xavier> that leaves determiniation of featuresets for 0.3, 0.4, 
  and 0.5 (which will be the first actual test release)
[14:11] <flynn> what about objects for the terrain like trees and stuff?
[14:12] <Xavier> those are to be placed in the versions listed
[14:12] <flynn> ok
[14:13] <Xavier> for example, I do not plan to deal with multiplayer in 0.5 
  because I don't plan to have a lobby or HUD etc...0.5 will be a simple 
  single mission startup
[14:13] <Xavier> up to that point we should work on populating a single 0.5 
  mission with interesting things
[14:13] <flynn> yeah
[14:14] <Xavier> so, for example, Concept decides on a mission that will be 
  the 0.5 mission
[14:14] <Xavier> (we'll need that soon btw, Cim)
[14:14] <Cimex> rr
[14:14] <Cimex> rgr
[14:15] <Xavier> we can assign various parts of the artwork and modelling 
  to the various minor revs
[14:15] <flynn> well basicly we need to start working on a demo map, so we 
  need to get designing 
[14:15] <Xavier> the dev team will need a rigid body at the least, to work 
  on model movement and control
[14:16] <Xavier> a finished version of that hovercraft would be fine
[14:16] <Xavier> that could be a 0.3 milestone
[14:16] <flynn> ok
[14:16] <Xavier> and 0.4 could be the manipulation of an animated model
[14:16] <Xavier> and for us, 0.5 would be the inclusion of sound, perhaps
[14:16] <flynn> i'll talk to thrash about the hovercraft
[14:17] <Xavier> given that, that would help define your task list
[14:17] <Xavier> your tasks will be driven also by what Concept can 
  provide, and when
[14:17] <flynn> yeah
[14:17] <Xavier> you'll be doing a lot of back-and-forht with them
[14:18] <Xavier> which is why I wanted to get the miossion editor done 
  first, so that you guys can just build the missions and toss them back 
  and forth for concept testing and commetn
[14:19] <Xavier> I'll probably go ahead and start fleshing out a plan for 
  0.5 in dotProject
[14:19] <Xavier> as it gets refined we can update it as we go
[14:20] <flynn> i can start working on the RX20-5s, for an animated mesh. 
[14:20] <flynn> just something basic
[14:20] <flynn> but it would give u something to test
[14:21] <Xavier> http://www.clashofsteel.net/dotproject/ if you weren't 
  aware, btw
[14:21] <Xavier> rgr flynn
[14:21] <flynn> i'll talk to you more about that later
[14:22] <Xavier> k
[14:22] <Xavier> ok so anyone have anything else?
[14:22] <Vanguard> ummm....well I guess my and Lycan will jsut keep on 
  webbing
[14:22] <Vanguard> :)
[14:23] <flynn> if not, i just want to  say i have noted down some points 
  here for the next meeting which we will review at that time 
[14:23] <DarkPhoenix> I'm good.
[14:23] <Vanguard> anything else you need from us in terms of security?
[14:23] <Xavier> your guys' work will come later once things start being 
  released
[14:24] <Xavier> I think Cim moved the gallery stuff over to the Wiki
[14:24] <Xavier> oh btw
[14:24] <Xavier> we need a code name for the v1.0
[14:24] <Xavier> it should have nothing to do with the project
[14:24] <Xavier> Slit and I were tossing around names the other day
[14:25] <Vanguard> Mango
[14:25] <Xavier> one option is atmospheric phenomena
[14:25] <Vanguard> hmmm...sounds good
[14:25] <Vanguard> if a bit long to type out
[14:25] <Xavier> I think the other was mountains
[14:26] <Xavier> no, I meant the theme of the naming, not the names
[14:26] <Vanguard> oh whoops
[14:26] <flynn> lol
[14:26] <Xavier> like Typhoon, Tsunami, Cyclone, Hurricane, etc....
[14:26] <Vanguard> yeah, ok i like that actually
[14:26] <DarkPhoenix> are you sure we wouldn't run out of names?
[14:26] <Xavier> or Vesuvius, Kilimanjaro, Maunalea, etc
[14:26] <Xavier> the names would be for major releases DP, like v1.0, v2.0, 
  etc
[14:26] <flynn> what about Galaxys?
[14:27] <Xavier> that works too
[14:27] <Vanguard> or constellations
[14:27] <flynn> or fish
[14:27] <Xavier> Project Sea Bass 
[14:27] <Xavier> :p
[14:27] <DarkPhoenix> or kitty cats
[14:27] <DarkPhoenix> :)
[14:27] <flynn> project kipper
[14:27] <Vanguard> v1.0 - Pussand Boots release
[14:27] <flynn> lol
[14:27] <Xavier> I like the "grand" natureof the early ones :p
[14:27] <Xavier> lol
[14:27] <DarkPhoenix> or major cities
[14:28] <DarkPhoenix> give me another reason to force people to spell 
  reykjavik
[14:28] <Xavier> rofl
[14:28] <flynn> lol
[14:28] <Vanguard> i think that's been done somewhere before....lol
[14:28] <Xavier> to this day I STILL get complaints
[14:28] <Vanguard> i dont see the problems...i never had any ;)
[14:28] <Xavier> I mean cmon, they had a friggin OLYMPICS there!!!
[14:28] <DarkPhoenix> hehe
[14:28] <Xavier> aye Van, me either
[14:29] <Xavier> so let's say mountains, galaxies or storms
[14:29] <flynn> we could use pop singers ;)
[14:29] <Xavier> ewww
[14:29] <Xavier> Project Beyonce
[14:29] <Cimex> hahahah
[14:29] <Vanguard> wait, I've got it
[14:29] <DarkPhoenix> types of swords?
[14:29] <Vanguard> names of koolaid flavors
[14:29] <Xavier> Project Cherry? o_O
[14:29] <Vanguard> Project Berry Blast
[14:29] <DarkPhoenix> katana, scimitar, broadsword, etc
[14:30] <Vanguard> how could you not bring yourself to download such a 
  project?
[14:30] <Xavier> hmm that's workable
[14:30] <Vanguard> thats an option DP
[14:30] <flynn> we could run out of sword names
[14:30] <DarkPhoenix> trust me, I can come up with sword names  :)
[14:30] <Vanguard> rapier, longsword
[14:30] <Vanguard> cutlass
[14:31] <Vanguard> ...umm, the one with the funny cuve
[14:31] <flynn> im good for that
[14:31] <Cimex> I can't wait for the bastard release.
[14:31] <flynn> as long as it sounds like some sort of military bit of kit 
  i'm good :P
[14:31] <DarkPhoenix> saber, flamberge
[14:31] <DarkPhoenix> claymore
[14:31] <Vanguard> ooo....flamberge
[14:31] <Xavier> swords then?
[14:32] <Cimex> Let's name them after Care Bears.
[14:32] <flynn> sure
[14:32] <flynn> lmao
[14:32] <Vanguard> well, if noone likes the koolaid suggestion...then 
  swords is excellent
[14:32] <DarkPhoenix> works for me (not the care bears).
[14:32] <DarkPhoenix> :)
[14:32] <Xavier> k so how about v1.0 = Katana ?
[14:32] <Cimex> Yeah, figured you were always a My Little Pony kind of guy, 
  DP ;)
[14:32] <Vanguard> I'd be worried if someone could come up with Care Bears 
  names
[14:32] <Xavier> rofl Van
[14:33] <DarkPhoenix> Rainbow Brite, all the way!
[14:33] <Vanguard> lol
[14:33] <flynn> shinken sounds better than Katana
[14:33] <flynn> =D
[14:33] <DarkPhoenix> ok, this meeting has degenerated just a bit.  :)
[14:33] <flynn> true :)
[14:34] <DarkPhoenix> I'll come up with a text file of sword names, and put 
  it in the doc directory of SVN
[14:34] <DarkPhoenix> should give you about 2-3 dozen to work with
[14:34] <flynn> cool
[14:34] <flynn> i think thats it then :)
[14:35] <Xavier> btw, in dotProject I am giving the project a target finish 
  date (for v1.0) of Nov 28 2005...that's not a hard date, it's just a 
  placeholder
[14:35] <Xavier> if you need a dotProject account, let me know
[14:35] <flynn> ok
[14:35] <flynn> i think i have one
[14:35] <Xavier> actually everyone should have one, everyone on the team
[14:35] <Vanguard> do I have one and/or need one?
[14:36] <flynn> btw, dotproject is excellent
[14:36] <Xavier> I put a lot of folks in there way back at the start of the 
  project
[14:36] <Vanguard> ok, apparently i do, nvm
[14:36] <Xavier> ya you have one
[14:37] <Xavier> Cim needs one
[14:37] <flynn> i need to remember my passwords :P
[14:37] <Xavier> hehe
[14:37] <flynn> there u go
[14:37] <flynn> got it
[14:37] <Xavier> ok then I guess that's all for today, flynn, you have this 
  logged? should put it in the forum I suppose?
[14:38] <flynn> yeah
[14:38] <Xavier> and like you said, we can put up agendas in the forum too
[14:38] <Xavier> next meeting two weeks from today?
[14:38] <Xavier> 26th?
[14:38] <DarkPhoenix> Great work guys.  A pleasure.  :)
[14:38] <Taos> gah
[14:38] <flynn> and i will put up an agenda thread so team leads can to it
[14:38] <Taos> bloody snow
[14:38] <Xavier> thx DP and all for coming!
[14:38] <Xavier> rgr flynn
[14:38] <flynn> and we will review the progress of the points i have made 
  here
[14:38] <Cimex> 2nd and 4th Sat. work better than 1st and 3rd for me.
[14:39] <Xavier> k then we'll go with that
[14:39] <DarkPhoenix> I'm in Richmond that weekend
[14:39] <flynn> i think my bird is up here actully :P
[14:40] <Xavier> 26th is bad, how about Apr 2?
[14:40] <Xavier> or 9th?
[14:40] <DarkPhoenix> either works for me
[14:40] <flynn> 9th will work best for me
[14:40] <Xavier> k then we can push it off a month and discuss things in 
  the forums until then
[14:40] <DarkPhoenix> I've got to log gang.  Thanks for the excellent work.
[14:41] <Xavier> rgr, thanks DP!
[14:41] <Vanguard> later DP
[14:41] <flynn> good to see ya DP
[14:41] <flynn> cya later
[14:41] <Cimex> later all
[14:41] <flynn> bye 
[14:41] * Cimex has quit IRC
[14:41] <DarkPhoenix> DP offline
[14:41] * DarkPhoenix has quit IRC
[14:41] <Vanguard> g'day fellas
[14:41] <Xavier> depending on the content of 0.3, we might go ahead and put 
  a tentative target date of the 9th on 0.3 to coincide with that meeting?
[14:41] <flynn> laters
[14:41] <Xavier> later all!
[14:41] <Vanguard> wow, thats fast
[14:41] <flynn> damn =\
[14:42] <flynn> ok 
[14:42] <Xavier> depends on the content
[14:42] <Xavier> if it's minor content then it could work
[14:42] <Vanguard> good job Xavier, keep it up, looking forward to it
[14:42] <Xavier> I don't expect to do a minor rev every month ;)
[14:42] <Xavier> thx Van :)
[14:42] <Vanguard> :) and on that note...*poof!*
[14:42] * Vanguard has quit IRC
[14:42] <Xavier> in fact, it may be the 9th for 0.2, no telling ;)
[14:42] <flynn> i am trying to fit CoS stuff in as much as i can, but i get 
  a lot of work on my desk atm
[14:43] <Xavier> np
[14:43] <Xavier> you got lots of modellers, delegate ;)
[14:43] <flynn> yeah well ill talk to Thrash about the hovercraft
[14:43] <Xavier> rgr
[14:43] <flynn> i can build a basic RX20 pretty quick
[14:44] <Xavier> I hate to put actual dates on a volunteer project but it's 
  the only way to make progress unfortunately
[14:44] <flynn> but im not sure how i export the animation information
[14:44] <flynn> yeah i know
[14:44] <Xavier> I'll get you that information; you can also peruse the 
  Ogre forums for hints and tips
[14:44] <flynn> ok
[14:44] <Xavier> I am pretty sure it's basic keyframing
[14:44] <flynn> ill be using XSI for the animation
[14:44] <Xavier> k
[14:45] <flynn> well i'll have to use IK and keyframing yeah
[14:45] <flynn> doing the animation is not much of a problem
[14:45] <flynn> it's just exporting it
[14:45] <Xavier> I look forward to seeing our first model animated and 
  controlled around a map :)
[14:45] <Xavier> the Ogre exporters take care of exporting the animation
[14:46] <Xavier> btw
[14:46] <flynn> yeah, i prob wont have it textured... but we will see
[14:46] <Xavier> I don'tknow how sophisticated everyone is...but we should 
  try to use GPU features as much as possible (bumpmapping, displacement 
  mapping, etc) for "high-poly" rendering
[14:47] <Xavier> Ogre is all about the shader programs
[14:47] <flynn> agreed
[14:47] <Xavier> Cg, HLSL, etc
[14:47] <flynn> i will look into normal mapping
[14:47] <flynn> i have not done it before, but i know how it works
[14:47] <Xavier> kewl
[14:48] <flynn> lupus is prob the main man for normal mapping atm
[14:48] <Xavier> xlnt :)
[14:48] <Xavier> ok I am going to start pushing stuff into dotproject to 
  get us started
[14:49] <flynn> this is why i want to use XSI mod tool for the final out 
  puts to the game
[14:49] <Xavier> np
[14:49] <flynn> i am waiting a lot of the Concept team
[14:49] <flynn> but if they can give me something i can start to put out 
  some milestones
[14:50] <flynn> but in the mean time this meeting gives me us something to 
  look at
[14:50] <flynn> so i am happy
[14:51] <Xavier> :)
[14:51] <flynn> in dotproject is there a way to have a subsection for the 
  model team?
[14:51] <Xavier> was nice to get everyone together so we all know where we 
  are and where we are going
[14:51] <Xavier> I think so
[14:52] <Xavier> I know that you can assign tasks to various teams
[14:52] <Xavier> at the least
[14:52] <flynn> i'll have a look around on it and see what i can find
[14:53] <flynn> ahhhh ok i see 
[14:53] <flynn> yeah thats cool
[14:53] <flynn> anyway i am gonna go cook dinner, if ur still about later, 
  ill talk to you then
[14:55] <Xavier> rgr
[14:55] * Xavier dives into project planning
[15:00] * flynn has quit IRC (Connection reset by peer)
[15:02] <flynn> damn thing
[15:09] <Xavier> lol
End of #cos-dev buffer    Sat Mar 12 15:10:11 2005
